All right, which one is this?
Yes, so this one right here,
this is a very advanced use case.
Let's say the user has a feature
called budgets, which I kind of talked
about earlier, where multiple
users can collaborate on a budget.
And so budgets have a budget ID, but also,
how through the UI would I be
able to add a user to my budget?
I would need to know their UID, and
how would I get their UID
from the client application?
Well my security rules won't allow
it because I say only users can know
information about their own profiles.
So how could I ever as a user say,
hey, I'm gonna enter in their email,
I want to get their UID and
say that they can collaborate with me?
So instead of opening up access
to a user's information,
I can use cloud functions to say,
write a request to create
a subcollection within the budget
called collaborator requests.
And then it's going to have
a document ID of the email.
And then when this new
email document is created,
I can look up the user with the admin
SDK to see, hey, what is their email?
And then from there,
I can say, hey, they exist,
that's great, let me add them for you.
So the admin SDK,
it's a trusted environment or
the functions are a trusted environment
that are running the admin SDK.
It is handling all of
the important trusted actions
that the client users
shouldn't have access to.
So this way I can still add users, I just
say, request that I have a collaborator,
that function will trigger and say,
of course, let me add that for you.
And then that gets added into,
not into collaboratorRequests,
will write it into
the collaborators field.
And then that new user will be
able to access and do everything.
So it automatically handles some of
the stuff for role-based security as well.
And the way that that would work is
is that let's get the email first,
so the email,
it's going to be context.params.
So we have the email, and we wanna
write to /budgets/.
And this is gonna be a sub collection
of collaborators, collaborators, and
it's going to be keyed off the UID.
So this way I can write a security rule
that says, hey, we find the collaborators
by their UID, and it's really easy
to match on security roles this way.
So I need a document to be
able to write to this place.
So I'm gonna say uidDoc =
firestore.collection('budgets'),
but how do I know what
the document ID is or budget ID?
I can get that from params.
And say, .doc(budgetId), and
then .collection('collaborators').
So this is the UID doc.
I need to get the UID, though, so
the way I can do that is actually
with the admin SDK for Firebase auth.
So doing that I can say,
auth = getAuth();.
And one thing that I accidentally glossed
over I wanna talk about is that functions
actually carries a lot of
environment variables for you.
So I can call the functions SDK,
call this config function.
And at runtime it populates all of the,
like a service account and
all this important information
into the Firebase field.
So I can actually initialize a Firebase
app without having to know what my
security account is or setting that up.
We can do that on your behalf,
you just tap into this function, and
then it's properly authenticated.
So now that I have the admin SDK,
I can say auth.getUserByEmail,
so I can get their email.
And get the result back.
And this comes back as a user record,
so I'll just write userRecord.
And then now I can call .doc of the user
record, no, userRecord.uid.
So I have this uidDoc, and so from here,
I can just say uidDoc.set, and
I'll set the role to collaborator.
Now, something that's actually
really important to understand with
functions are is that functions
need to know when to tear down,
how long should they be running for?
So what I did right here is when I said,
await batch.commit,
one of the things I think it
still works for this case, but
what I should really say
is return batch.commit().
Because it's returning the promise,
and once that promise resolves,
functions goes, I have no other
work to do, let me tear down.
So that's less time they're running,
that's less time that you're
being billed for and everything.
So that's a best practice is to always
return a promise from a function,
unless you're doing an HTTPS function and
there's no returning a promise there,
it's just request-response.
So in this case I can return the set, and
that tells me that I'm
done with this function.
So now let's go and test this.
So I'm gonna save.
And one thing to notice too
is this whole entire time,
I'm not tearing down the emulator and
re-running.
When I write my code hot
reloads everything for me.
Let me clear, no, let me clear this.
All right, so
I'm going to create a budget.
So budgets, I'll create a budget ID,
I'll call it good_budget.
Name, don't really need a name,
but Good Budget, Save.
Now within good_budget, I'm gonna copy and
paste it because I know I'm gonna
get it wrong, collaboratorRequests.
Next, and so
the document ID is going to be an email.
So david@example.com, and I can just, for
data duplication sake,
just put it in there as a field.
Now when I save, one second,
I'm gonna go in and go, there it is.
There's collaboratorRequests,
and if I go to Logs,
you're gonna see we have it in there.
Say go to Logs, we got an error,
there is no user record corresponding.
Well, that's not great because,
well, the user doesn't exist, so
it's not able to do that.
So something I should do is I should
try and catch that, and if it doesn't
exist say, maybe I could send an email
out to invite that user to join.
In this case, I'm going to keep
this as is just to show it working.
And I'm going to grab a user,
let's invite this user, this uid.
Or what's their email, actually?
I want this email, let's see, this one.
And let's go into budgets,
collaboratorsRequests,
we'll add another one.
Save, and then now we have that.
We go into collaboratorRequests,
it automatically popped
up with collaborators.
That's the same UID, and
the role is collaborator.
And so now that would work
with our security rules.
So in the case that if the user was not
authenticated, what I'd really wanna
do here is try, Catch the error,
and right now I'll return Promise.resolve
to make sure that it knows to tear down.
But what I could really do is
say send an email to join.